what's going on everyone and welcome
back to another episode of paint society
the channel where the learning doesn't
stop when the video ends make sure to
leave a comment I'll get back to you I
really appreciate all the love and
support so if you liked this video make
sure you subscribe if you're new to the
channel i'm brian today's video is about
the tape thing and how to mask a car
okay so once again my name is brian and
welcome to the channel guys this channel
is all about use for beginners and
professional level and i do have a lot
to learn from you guys as well so today
we're going to be learning how to mask a
car now what we have over here are two
doors that we're going to be masking and
i'm going to show you some quick
techniques on how to do this exactly now
let me tell you masking a car sometimes
can be overwhelming where do you put
tape where don't you put tape it's kind
of an art so today what we're going to
be doing is we're gonna be going over
the tape thing new technology and paint
it's gonna be showing us how to tape
things gonna help us out do we need the
tape thing to paint a car or to tape a
car absolutely not but will it help you
out I really do think so so we have
different types of tape here which we're
going to go over right now so your first
budget tape that you have here is your
smart brand tape and the cheaper the
tape the less it's going to stick it
might come off a little bit here and
there so this is a smart brand tape
those two still do the job it's kind of
like that 3m painters tape but I find it
has just a little less sticky to it the
next tape what we have is three ends
budget tape which is their yellow which
still works pretty good you'll find that
it's a little bit more rigid
it doesn't really been as easy but it
will get the job done and it's still a
very good option 3m has a lot of budget
options for those that don't want to
spend as much money but still want good
quality results the last tape that we
have here is my personal favorite it is
three M's hyland and what I like about
3m Thailand is it works great in high
humidity it's got a little a lot of bend
to it and
it's not going to release easily it's
one of my favorite tapes and then over
here what we have is three M's new flex
tape and it's got actual ridges in it
that this is for fine line like when
you're contouring around a bumper or
something like that when you really want
to get a nice clean edge
it actually contours pretty pretty well
and in coming videos I'll show you how
to do this on a bumper so what is the
tape thing exactly well the tape thing
is right here tape caddy and you can
find this on collegiate collision
edge.com
okay that's collision edge comm and this
is just going to make your life ten
times easier now you put it right here
if you have a belt it goes right over
your belt me it's going over my pants
fits in real easy so it comes with many
adapters and the adapters the tape
actually has to fit within so they'll
tell you right here you know if it's an
inch and a half 1/2 inch three quarters
whatever it is so it supposed to spin
freely okay so like I said we have all
these different tapes they spend freely
super easy so it's easy as this all
you're gonna do is take your tape you
come right here BAM you are good to go
so here I can take my tape if I want to
turn it around the other way that's not
a problem you're left-handed
right-handed if you have you're on your
left or your right and then I say I want
to switch it out just come right here
pop it right there I'm good to go
so we're gonna be utilizing the tape
thing tape caddy excuse me to help us
out with this actual taping of this
vehicle so the most important thing that
you need to do before you tape is you
need to use your wax and grease remover
and a clean pad and you need to clean
where the tape is gonna be back mass so
so for instance on this particular door
we're gonna be putting tape along the
back edge so that overspray doesn't get
through we'll be putting foam tape in
this area right here and then over on
the back door we're gonna be putting
tape on the backside back masking all
throughout the leading edge of the back
door so he's gonna back mask that what
that means is he's putting the reverse
putting it just reverse and he's using
two-inch you could use an inch and a
quarter whatever works for you
it doesn't matter and he's just gonna go
along the whole bottom excuse me the
whole back of this storage and then he's
gonna carry it all the way through here
[Music]
quick tip you always want to mask from
the back to the front so you always
start with your back door you open that
up
do all your masking and then you close
your front door and then you're good to
go so that might help you out and then
when you go to unmask you start with the
front door and then do the reverse but
he's gonna do here is on the bottom he's
going to use the same method and we're
gonna attach our plastic to that so the
whole door is back masked and it's ready
pretty much for paper so what we're
gonna do real quick is gonna have you
put the little caddy on and see if you
like it use this take this it shouldn't
you know you're skinnier than me fit
right in there alright so then that goes
and you can reverse the tape if you want
that's good okay okay so what he's gonna
do now is he's got the tape caddy going
and he's gonna pull it just a little bit
pull it towards the back and that's
gonna help keep that bridge away from
there so when the clear coat goes it
doesn't stick to both take it and pull
it nice so it's nice and tight and now
what he's gonna do is he's gonna tape
the top and he's in a back mass this
area the same way
perfect and then he can fill in the gaps
it's a little tight here because the
mullah the way the door it is but you
could still stick a little bit now we do
like the Highland because it works great
for the humidity it sticks well it's
thin it's easy to conform and then right
in here you can just tape it he doesn't
actually need to actually do back mask
here and then what he'll do is they'll
put like a little piece of tape here and
there so in the plastic comes over it
doesn't actually stick to it and pull it
down just to keep it against the window
kind of helps out so now we're what
we're gonna do with this door edge is
we're gonna be putting foam we like to
use foam because it it fits in there
well and does exactly what we need to do
and that foam is just really simple you
don't stretch it because if you stretch
it it's gonna come loose so all you do
is just fit it right into that groove
they make different millimeters
different sizes and that's totally that
leave a nice soft edge along that that
inside of that door so that when they go
to pull it off you can give a little
buff but actually there's a rubber that
sits there anyways so now on the inside
this door he's gonna use you can switch
it out you can use I guess take this the
Lord what I have it over here take this
see if it works good pop that there and
then you're gonna tape the inside
because we don't want we want a nice gap
a nice nice seal between the two and
he's just gonna run this right at the
edge of it right at the very very edge
all the way down you're better than I
thought
isn't it kind of therapeutic therapeutic
I used to say do I love hate basking
more do I hate buffing and I think I
hate buffing yeah masking is not that
bad
good I mean you could really if you want
we can run one more yeah you can run a
thicker one you don't need to use that
and that's just gonna help make sure
there's no overspray that seeps through
the gap here all right so he's running
that tape on the on the bottom side as
well and we come over on this side
that's what it looks like so this will
all come together once we put the
plastic on it'll all make sense so same
thing here is gonna run it all across he
can get a big long piece if you want and
then we'll show you we'll get into how
to mask these off and little random
holes here and there this is very basic
and future videos will do we wheel well
masking will do inside of the hood we
usually take everything off so we're not
going to show you masking off bumpers
and stuff like that because you just
don't do that so right here all he's
gonna do is you can use inch and a
quarter or the half inch edges and go
straight down it's gonna tuck it in just
a little bit if there was any moldings
in there we would remove them I could
get overspray on this car there there
already been removed so we're good to go
so he'll just take tuck it in you can
even use like a little bit of a Phillips
head pocket screwdriver or your
fingernail to make sure it's good to go
and for here what he's gonna do it just
put a piece of tape inside nothing
special here just covering off from
overspray going inside the door and get
him inside the car now while he's doing
that we're gonna talk about right in
here now we're gonna put a little tape
over these black moldings and the screws
so it doesn't get any sort of overspray
on it but right in here we're going to
use foam tape and this is just another
good way to utilize it and I'm gonna
show you the right way to fold it
opposed to the way that I wouldn't
suggest okay so there's two ways that I
would do this you could fold it you're
gonna fold it like this okay that's how
you fold it but when you're going to put
it in you don't put it in like this
because that's just more areas for dirt
to hang out and come out just put it in
like this okay now that's a little bit
not big enough so we'll just crunch this
in here and we have thicker tape that
will it cut hold the whole cover the
whole little bit better so this one's
too thin so we actually get a thicker
one we'll use this for the front so same
thing
[Music]
I like the blue foam a little bit more
for here yeah it's a little bit cheaper
and then over here same thing
so we have all of our area the whole two
doors the whole perimeter of the two
doors is completely good to go
this is probably going to be one of your
easier things to mass off and so what
we're gonna is gonna pull over to
plastic and then we'll give some tips on
how to cover the car with the plastic so
we're gonna go ahead we'll pull this
over the car it's not supposed to happen
like that
[Music]
this is a smart brand it's not 3m
all right so when your bring it over
just gently you want to create too much
static I don't go flapping it because
that just puts a whole bunch of static
on the actual vehicle and then you'll
really get stung shocked so the first
thing you want to do is just bring it
all on the side that you're painting
[Music]
bring it all the way down to the bottom
nice and neat
okay so once you have it down then what
you're going to do on this side is
you're going to start sticking it to all
of that back master area like this so
I'm just going to come here and stick it
to all your areas just by pushing it now
remember our areas over here our back
mass so we'll pull it here and just give
it I want to come from this angle over
okay and then over here come down I just
hit that tape on the bottom alright so
now we have a nice tight area you see
Diaz over here pulling it tight and I
give it like a little bit of a knot
alright so what we'll do here is we're
gonna start cutting it out and as we cut
it out we always want to use like a
fresh razor because you're just gonna
tear it up and he's just gonna cut along
the dotted line pretty much and as he
cuts along that line we're just gonna
tape so we're just gonna pull it off
where he taped
and we're going back to 3m uh classic
let's see this like saran wrap just come
across the whole entire area it's better
to have long consistent tape selections
if you want to call it now no tears no
brakes because that's going to keep it
very tight and keep the overspray away
so on this side as I tape here Diaz is
going and cutting for me
oh yes sorry I read taped it all nice
and yellow
[Music]
so then across the bottom what he'll do
is he'll cut the whole thing and we'll
just take the bottom I'll hold it up for
you so that way yeah you can cut in the
middle you always want to cut right in
the middle of the tape and what that
will do is give you room to still put
the tape over because you don't want the
plastic and the tape at the same spot
finishing
[Music]
yeah
and I'll take that so we can keep it
[Music]
nice and then what we'll do here is Phil
fold it over and just to keep overspray
away and keep dirt down to a minimum
we'll run a couple pieces of to in-state
that is our last precaution what we'll
do to keep dust down as we'll go ahead
and we'll put some masking paper since I
since we do have a crossdress booth you
know the overspray can get everywhere
and if you have a spot that's not
incredibly tight you can just poke a
little hole in it and then just take
some tape and hold it back not every job
is gonna be super push super super
pretty okay so we just got it masked up
and yes there are areas that we should
be going into the next panel but we do
have a good color match and this is what
is going to be done on this job and
that's gonna be that and let's end this
video hey guys this is Brian from paint
Society just reminding you don't
overthink it it's just paint
[Music]